Another thing that we can do or
we can start thinking about as web
developers is plugins for ChatGPT,
and potentially for other LLMs or
apps such as Bing Chat in the future.
So this is a new feature to GPT,
it's not yet available for everyone.
In fact in my account, I don't yet
have access to it, but
I know how that works from
a development point of view.
And the idea is that the user
can pick from a list of plugins
that you can install from
a marketplace at any time when
you're making a query in
the ChatGPT website, and
then ChatGPT will use those plugins for
enhancing the answer.
I will explain how that works in a minute.
So it's not like ChatGPT will know
all the time all the plugins.
The user will install plugins, and
then the user will pick at any particular
moment, hey, for the query that I'm
going to do right now, I want you to use
those plugins if you feel ChatGPT that
that will be useful, that's the idea.
And plugins are basically web services.
Going back to the idea
that I mentioned before,
we can make a plugin from
Frontend Master videos.
So then we need to create first
a web service that will expose
the endpoints to ChatGPT with
information that is useful for
wherever we think that
ChatGPT can use our data for.
We integrate the JSON manifest and
register that manifest with ChatGPT.
I will show you a sample of
that manifest in a minute.
And also if you want, you can require
authentication from users to the system,
because that plugin can actually read,
for example, your emails.
It doesn't need to be a public API.
It can also have an authentication
token that goes to that user.
And maybe you wanna charge for that,
so it needs to be a premium user.
How does it work?
So we are developers.
When we think about plugins,
we think that there is an API where
we can hook our web services or
something like that, and then the GPT
model will know that our service is
doing something and it will work.
But actually, it's much more simple, and
I could say sometimes
even silly than that.
This is how it works.
So the user is in ChatGPT and
the user added your
plugin to their system
from the marketplace, and
ChatGPT will check,
will have the list of plugins enable.
And every plugin has a text
that you define explaining what
kind of data is available in that plugin.
ChatGPT uses GPT to actually
ask the model if for
the user's question,
it seems likely that
that plugin is useful.
So let's say that I'm asking or
I wanna know where I can
find information about
PHP in Frontend Masters.
So then ChatGPT will send
to the model a question.
Do you feel like any of these
plugins will enhance the answer?
And the model will say, yeah,
the Frontend Master plugin can do that.
Then ChatGPT will go,
it will call our service and
it will enhance the prompt.
How is going to enhance the prompt?
It will copy and paste the response
from the web service into the prompt.
So if it feels weird, we will do
something similar, so no worries.
The thing I'm telling you here is that
if we're making a web service for
a ChatGPT plugin, the information
that we provide from the service
will finally end up within the prompt as
text, okay, as context for the prompt.
It's not really applying
into the GPT model.
You're just hacking the prompt
with the data from our plugin,
that's how it works, it's kind of weird.
So the plugin is a JSON file
that you must store in your
well-known folder,
is a JSON file with metadata.
And here, you will see that there
is a name for human and name for
model, a description for human and
a description for model.
So the description for
human is for the marketplace,
so the human can check or
uncheck that plugin.
But the most important one is
description for the model,
because this description is the one
that is going to be used to
determine if that plugin is useful or
not for the current query.
Does it makes sense?
It's a little hacky.
And where do you define your endpoints and
the data structure of your web services?
In a YAML file.
So we have a JSON file and
also a YAML file.
The YAML file looks like this,
where you said the URL of the endpoint.
And then it's like a web service
description that you have a get.
The get has a summary,
the possible responses,
the structure, the schema of
the answer that you will provide.
You can even ask ChatGPT
to make this file for you.
Have in mind that plugins are not just for
reading information,
they can also be for acting.
So you can add things to your database
based on the ChatGPT response.
It's not just to receive data.
It's the main purpose,
but not the only purpose.
So let me show you
quickly how plugins work.
For that, I will show you a video, just to
understand in case you haven't seen this,
how a plugin will work
from a user's perspective.
So you see-
>> I'm going to show you.
>> Let me mute.
The guy here, but actually,
what you have is a selector for
the model that we have today, and
there is a model for using plugins.
And then you enable the plugins that you
wanna use for this particular query.
You go to the store, you install plugins,
and then on each query,
you can enable or disable plugins.
And again, the first step will be for
the model to see if the plugins enable,
these three, are suitable for this prompt.
The same GPT model will say,
I think that maybe this one is useful.
So if the prompt makes that decision,
then it will act and
open that web service.
It will call the web service and
it will inject the respond in the prompt.
So that's how a plugin works.
So you're not actually hooking into the
model, you are hooking into the prompt.
You are hacking the prompt,
the string that goes to the model.
So that's how you need to
think about creating plugins.
So if you are a source of information,
then maybe it's a good idea to start
thinking about creating a plugin.
And if you wanna create a plugin, you can
apply today for a waitlist for developers.
In that case, you explain what your
plugin is for, why it's useful.
And if you get access to it, you can start
playing and trying your plugins there.
So as a developer, that's the plugin.